= Overview

This project contains shell scripts for setting up a new OSX environment.

= Features

* Configures default OSX settings.
* Installs Homebrew[http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew] with the following formulas:
  * {Bash Completion}[http://bash-completion.alioth.debian.org]
  * Tree[http://mama.indstate.edu/users/ice/tree]
  * Git[http://git-scm.com]
  * Hub[https://github.com/defunkt/hub]
  * Pigz[http://www.zlib.net/pigz]
  * jq[http://stedolan.github.com/jq]
  * {The Silver Surfer}[https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher]
  * {Network Grep}[http://ngrep.sourceforge.net]
  * ImageMagick[http://www.imagemagick.org]
  * Graphviz[http://www.graphviz.org]
  * Node.js[http://nodejs.org]
  * Phantom.js[http://phantomjs.org]
  * {Ruby Gems}[https://github.com/bkuhlmann/ruby_gem_setup]
  * rbenv[https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv]
  * rbenv-build[https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build]
  * rbenv-gem-rehash[https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv-gem-rehash]
  * rbenv-default-gems[https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv-default-gems]
  * rbenv-vars[https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv-vars]
  * Ruby[http://www.ruby-lang.org]
  * Dotfiles[https://github.com/bkuhlmann/dotfiles]
  * Pow[http://pow.cx]
  * Redis[http://redis.io]
  * PostgreSQL[http://www.postgresql.org]
  * MySQL[https://www.mysql.com]
* Downloads and installs software packages generally not in the {App Store}[http://www.apple.com/macosx/whats-new/app-store.html]:
  * Caffeine[http://lightheadsw.com/caffeine]
  * Dropbox[https://www.dropbox.com]
  * Knox[https://agilebits.com/knox]
  * iTerm2[http://www.iterm2.com]
  * {Sublime Text 2}[http://www.sublimetext.com/2]
  * Alfred[http://www.alfredapp.com]
  * TextExpander[http://www.smilesoftware.com/TextExpander]
  * {Path Finder}[http://cocoatech.com]
  * Firefox[http://www.mozilla.com/en-US/firefox]
  * {Google Chrome}[http://www.google.com/chrome]
  * Opera[http://www.opera.com] 
  * OmniFocus[http://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omnifocus]
  * OmniOutliner[http://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omnioutliner]
  * OmniGraffle[http://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omnigraffle]
  * OmniDazzle[http://www.omnigroup.com/products/omnidazzle]
  * ExpanDrive[http://www.expandrive.com]
  * {iStat Menus}[http://bjango.com/apps/istatmenus]
  * Bartender[http://www.macbartender.com]
  * {Source Tree}[http://www.sourcetreeapp.com]
  * GitHub[http://mac.github.com]
  * Snippets[http://www.snippetsapp.com]
  * Espresso[http://macrabbit.com/espresso]
  * CodeKit[http://incident57.com/codekit]
  * Acorn[http://flyingmeat.com/acorn]
  * DoubleTake[http://echoone.com/doubletake]
  * ImageOptim[http://imageoptim.pornel.net]
  * VLC[http://www.videolan.org/vlc]
  * Induction[http://inductionapp.com]
  * pgAdmin[http://www.pgadmin.org/index.php]
  * Namebench[https://code.google.com/p/namebench]
  * Billings[http://www.billingsapp.com]
  * MoneyWell[http://nothirst.com/moneywell]
  * {Delicious Library}[http://www.delicious-monster.com]
  * OpenOffice[http://www.openoffice.org]
  * Colloquy[http://colloquy.info]
  * Wedge[http://wedge.natestedman.com]
  * Skype[http://www.skype.com]
  * VirtualBox[https://www.virtualbox.org]
  * Doxie[http://www.getdoxie.com]
  * Hazel[http://www.noodlesoft.com/hazel.php]
  * {Pastebot Sync}[http://tapbots.com/software/pastebot/#sync]
  * {Air Display}[http://avatron.com/apps/air-display]
  * {Eye-Fi}[http://www.eye.fi]
* Downloads and installs software extensions:
  * {Google Chrome Rails Panel}[https://github.com/dejan/rails_panel]
  * {Sublime Text 2 Git Gutter}[https://github.com/jisaacks/GitGutter]
  * {Sublime Text 2 Gist}[https://github.com/condemil/Gist]
  * {Sublime Text 2 Advanced New File}[https://github.com/skuroda/Sublime-AdvancedNewFile]
  * {Sublime Text 2 Bracket Highlighter}[git://github.com/facelessuser/BracketHighlighter.git]
  * {Sublime Text 2 Xiki}[https://github.com/lunixbochs/SublimeXiki]
  * {Sublime Text 2 Easy Motion}[https://github.com/tednaleid/sublime-EasyMotion]
  * {Sublime Text 2 Emmet}[http://emmet.io]
  * {Sublime Text 2 Web Inspector}[http://sokolovstas.github.com/SublimeWebInspector]

= Requirements

* OSX[http://www.apple.com/osx]
* {OSX Software Updates}[http://www.apple.com/osx]
* Xcode[https://developer.apple.com/downloads] (and that the license agreement is accepted)
* {Command Line Tools for Xcode}[https://developer.apple.com/downloads]

= Setup

Open a terminal window and execute one of the following setup sequences depending on your version preference:

Current Version (stable):

  git clone git://github.com/bkuhlmann/osx.git
  cd osx
  git checkout v1.2.0

Master Version (unstable):

  git clone git://github.com/bkuhlmann/osx.git
  cd osx

= Usage

Edit any of the *.sh files in the scripts folder to your liking and then open a terminal window to execute the following command:

  ./install.sh

Running the install.sh script will present the following options:

  b: Apply basic machine settings.
  h: Install Homebrew software (i.e. non-GUI, command line interfaces).
  a: Install application software (i.e. GUI-enabled).
  x: Install application extensions (i.e. enhancements, add-ons, plug-ins, etc.)
  d: Apply software defaults.
  w: Clean install work directory.
  i: Perform complete install (i.e. basic settings, Homebrew, applications, extensions, defaults, and work directory clean-up).
  c: Check status of installed applications and extensions.
  q: Quit/Exit.

Choose option 'i' to run all install tasks or select a specific option to run a single task. Each task is designed to be re-run
if necessary. This can also be handy for performing upgrades, re-running a missing/failed install, etc.

It is recommended that the machine be rebooted after all install tasks have completed. Feel free to delete the osx project
directory afterwards...or keep it around for future upgrades.

== Customization

While the default settings for this project are opinionated and tailored for my specific setup, you can easily fork this project
and customize the settings to your specific environment. Start by editing the files located in the settings project:

* settings/settings.sh = Defines all install settings for machine name, applications, extensions, version info, install paths, etc. 
* settings/rbenv-vars.txt = Defines global environment settings for Ruby development.

*TIP*: The installer determines which applications/extensions to install as defined by the settings.sh script. Applications
defined with the "APP_NAME" suffix and extensions defined with the "EXTENSION_PATH" suffix inform the installer what to
care about. Removing/commenting out these applications/extensions within the settings.sh file will cause the installer
to skip these applications/extensions.

You can also modify the install scripts themselves by editing any of the following:

* scripts/basic.sh = Configures basic system settings.
* scripts/homebrew.sh = Defines, installs, and configures Homebrew command line interface software.
* scripts/applications.sh = Defines how each application should be installed.
* scripts/extensions.sh = Defines how each application extension should be installed.
* scripts/defaults.sh = Configures useful system and application defaults.

All Bash functions, used by the scripts defined above, can be found here:

* functions/functions.sh = Defines functions for installing, configuring, and checking software.

= App Store Software

I also recommend installing the following software found via the {App Store}[http://www.apple.com/macosx/whats-new/app-store.html]:

* Moom[http://manytricks.com/moom]
* 1Password[http://agilewebsolutions.com/products/1Password]
* Fantastical[http://flexibits.com/fantastical]
* Cobook[http://www.cobookapp.com]
* Cheatsheet[http://www.cheatsheetapp.com/CheatSheet]
* 3Hub[http://3hubapp.com]
* PDFpenPro[http://www.smilesoftware.com/PDFpenPro/index.html]
* Patterns[http://krillapps.com/patterns]
* ColorSnapper[http://colorsnapper.com]
* Gradient[http://www.gradientapp.com]
* xScope[http://iconfactory.com/software/xscope]
* LittleSnapper[http://www.realmacsoftware.com/littlesnapper]
* Pixelmator[http://www.pixelmator.com]
* {GIF Brewery}[http://www.helloresolven.com/portfolio/gifbrewery]
* {Cocoa JSON Editor}[http://www.cocoajsoneditor.com]
* AquaPath[http://ditchnet.org/aquapath]
* GarageBand[http://www.apple.com/ilife/garageband]
* iMovie[http://www.apple.com/ilife/imovie]
* iPhoto[http://www.apple.com/ilife/iphoto]
* Twitter[https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/twitter/id409789998?mt=12]

= Miscellaneous Software

The following software is optional:

* {Mouse Pointer}[http://www.2point5fish.com/index.html]
* {Hardware IO Tools for Xcode}[https://developer.apple.com/downloads] - Includes the Network Link Conditioner amongst other goodies.
* {VMWare Fusion}[http://www.vmware.com/products/fusion] (requires a registered account, download only)
* {Logitech Control Center}[http://www.logitech.com/en-us/584/3129]
* {Logitech Harmony Remote}[http://www.logitech.com/en-us/440/3742?section=downloads]

= Post Install Checklist

The following is a checklist of additional steps worth completing after the scripts have been executed:

* Enable FileVault (via System Preferences - Security and Privacy).
* Configure Wi-Fi.
* Configure printer.
* Configure scanner.
* Configure Apple Mail and email accounts.
* Configure Address Book.
* Configure iCal.
* Configure iTunes.
* Configure Google Chrome
* * Open the Flags tab (i.e. chrome://flags)
* * Enable Experimental Extension APIs
* * Enable Developer Tools Experiments
* Configure previously installed applications.

= Resources

* Boxen[http://boxen.github.com] - GitHub's automated development setup.
* {Mathias Bynens' OSX Defaults}[https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles/blob/master/.osx] - Default software settings automation.

= Contributions

Read CONTRIBUTING for details.

= Credits

Developed by {Brooke Kuhlmann}[http://www.redalchemist.com] at {Red Alchemist}[http://www.redalchemist.com]

= License

Copyright (c) 2012 {Red Alchemist}[http://www.redalchemist.com].
Read the LICENSE for details.

= History

Read the CHANGELOG for details.
